- [Instructor] The Mediator pattern is another one
of these patterns that we see used in a couple places
in the Spring Framework, but we don't use
that often when we write code.
In the Spring Framework, the single most important
place that we see the Mediator pattern used is
in the DispatcherServlet and the way
that it operates in Spring MVC.
Now, often it can also be used
when setting the state of various components at once,
and that's another time that we see
that used throughout the Framework
because when they have to do this,
these are all hidden kind of underneath the covers.
So how does this pattern actually work?
So, the Mediator provides encapsulation
on object behavior.
Communication channels flow through the Mediator,
who then, in turn, allow its mediated classes
to do work.
Mediated classes do not communicate with each other
and that's really the key of this pattern.
They only communicate with the Mediator.
And the Mediator classes themselves
can register or unregister as needed.
So why would we want to go about
using the Mediator pattern?
One of the biggest uses is we want to
reduce the exponential growth that occurs
when you have interobject communication.
When you have two objects that talk to each other,
you have one communication path.
When you have three, that jumps.
When you have five, that jumps even more.
And we get this exponential growth curve
as more and more objects have to communicate
with each other.
This is one of the key points
of using a Mediator pattern.
Once again we see this tight coupling come up.
And using the Mediator pattern allows us
to reduce the tight coupling between these objects
that interact.
And finally, it makes interaction flows between objects
more resistant to changes,
because as an object, I only know about the Mediator
as a mediated object, and not the other objects
that I need to communicate with.
I allow the Mediator to do
that communication on my behalf.
So if you wanted to use a Mediator
how would you go about doing it?
First and foremost, you have
to create the mediated interface.
Then you have to create a Mediator interface
with the method to register the mediated,
as well as unregister the mediated,
and then any structured commands that you need
to support through this Mediator flow.
Then you're going to create concrete implementations
of each as needed.
And finally, in these structured commands
you're going to mediate the behavior to all
of the mediated objects, as appropriate.
You're going to allow those objects to take the message
and do what they want with it.
You're just mediating the calls.
You receive a call in, you send it
to every object you mediate.
This is how we would go about doing this.
And these are very special use cases
in these behavior patterns.
And it's good to know about them.
We don't actually see them that often
when we're implementing them, until you get
into really complex systems programming.
The Mediator is really, really useful
when you have lots of things you've got
to talk to at one time,
and you want to prevent them
from talking to each other
And that's why we would choose it.
And this is sort of the basic strategy.